Texas Linux Fest 2015
=====================

Two talks I presented August 22, 2015 at the Texas Linux Fest in San
Marcos, TX.

<https://2015.texaslinuxfest.org>

FreeNAS - ZFS for Home and Office
---------------------------------

<https://2015.texaslinuxfest.org/content/freenas-zfs-home-and-office>

Submitted by [Aaron Poffenberger](https://2015.texaslinuxfest.org/users/aaron-poffenberger) on Sun, 07/12/2015 - 20:01

**Room**: Room 3
**Time Slot**: 11:20

Data is on everyone's mind. Home users want to keep their memories
secure, stream media and handle other tasks without building a data
center. Business want confidentiality, integrity and availability at
enterprise and web scale. Both want it robust, easy to manage and most
of all, secure.

ZFS provides all these features. FreeNAS makes them easy to manage.
Both are open source.

FreeNAS is an appliance distribution of FreeBSD for network attached
storage. It supports NFS, AppleTalk (with Time Machine) and Windows
shares. Out of the box FreeNAS comes with services for ssh, rsync,
WebDAV, FTP, TFTP and more. It has plugins for Bacula, BTSync,
OwnCloud, Plex Media Server (and more). But best of all, it's built on
ZFS.

ZFS might be Sun's most important, and certainly lasting legacy to the
*nix community. ZFS is an integrated filesystem and logical volume
manager with copy-on-write snapshots, clones, file compression,
integrity checking, replication to remote servers, data de-duplication
and software RAID configurable with up to 3 parity disks. And for the
paranoid (and who isn't?)...disk-level encryption.

All these features are wrapped-up neatly in an easy-to-use
point-and-click web interface for those who have other things to
do...with all the power that comes with having ssh access to an
enterprise-ready OS under the hood.

In this talk we'll look at hardware requirements, features and use of
ZFS and how FreeNAS brings all this power to low-cost commodity
hardware with an open-source license. We'll also discuss briefly
TrueNAS, FreeNAS's big brother, for the large-scale data center.

Aaron Poffenberger, CISSP, has more than 17 years experience
developing commercial software. Aaron has developed security and
auditing software for PentaSafe Security Technologies, NetIQ and now
BRS Labs, Inc. Aaron has also worked in the field of web services and
streaming media, most recently for The Anime Network.

At BRS Labs Aaron leads development of the AISight 5.x SCADA driver as
well as the AISight Core Technologies API and SDK."

BSD for Linux Users
-------------------

<https://2015.texaslinuxfest.org/content/bsd-linux-users>

Submitted by [Aaron Poffenberger](https://2015.texaslinuxfest.org/users/aaron-poffenberger) on Sun, 07/12/2015 - 20:28

**Room**: Room 2
**Time Slot**: 3:50

You've heard the saying ""FreeBSD for servers, OpenBSD for firewalls
and NetBSD for appliances."" But what can BSD do for you at your desk,
on your laptop or in your data center?

In this talk we'll look at what's going on in BSD, look at several of
BSD distributions, where and how they're being used and discuss unique
or advanced technologies in the BSD world.

Aaron Poffenberger, CISSP, has more than 17 years experience
developing commercial software. Aaron has developed security and
auditing software for PentaSafe Security Technologies, NetIQ and now
BRS Labs, Inc. Aaron has also worked in the field of web services and
streaming media, most recently for The Anime Network.

At BRS Labs Aaron leads development of the AISight 5.x SCADA driver as
well as the AISight Core Technologies API and SDK.
